# In-class assignment 3.1

**How to submit:** Submit the embed code for your map on ELMS. (Your homework will be to add it to your germany-world-cup page).

## Interactive maps

Today continues our use of digital story telling tools and code to tell visual stories about Germany's run to the World Cup title in 2014.  We'll build an interactive map using a basic tool to build maps on top of the Google Maps API, one of the many free mapping tools available to journalists.

Your assignment today is to duplicate the interactive map that appears on [my Germany World Cup](http://smussenden.github.io/germany-world-cup/index.html) page EXACTLY as it appears.  

The map shows the location of the six stadiums in Brazil in which the German men's national soccer team competed en route to winning the 2014 World Cup.

The icons are shaded yellow for group stage games and green for knockout round games.  When you click on the icons, information about the stadium, location, username, date, and the opponent appears in a pop-up box.

## Important information for this assignment

You will work with a partner to create this map, working on ONE computer, taking turns at the keyboard. You should only produce one version of this map on one person's Google account.

The location, stadium name, tournament stage and game info on each of the stadiums is contained in this [Excel file of Brazil stadiums](brazilstadiums.xlsx).

To make this map, you will use Google Maps "My Maps" feature.  I will provide no more instruction than that.  There are THOUSANDS of software tools that help journalists build interactive graphics, and I'm trying to get you comfortable with the idea of just jumping in and learning how to use something new.  

With some googling, I bet you can find a guide or tips on how to use My Maps.  And if you are having a specific problem, google that problem.

When you are finished and you are CONFIDENT it is exactly as mine appears, you should submit the embed code (it will contain the word iframe) below.    
