# In-class assignment 2.5

**How to submit:** Commit index.html to GitHub Pages site. Put link to GitHub pages site in ELMS.

## Interactive timelines

For the next week and a half, we'll be using digital story telling tools and code to tell visual stories (a timeline, maps and charts) about Germany's run to the World Cup title in 2014.  We'll start, today, with an interactive timeline, built using a tool called Timeline.js, one of the many free, open-source storytelling tools available to you.   

## Instructions

Your assignment today is to build the interactive timeline of Germany's game recap that appears on this page. Link out.


 http://cnsmaryland.org/352-652/germany-world-cup/day-three/

You will use Timeline.JS (Links to an external site.), an intuitive, free tool for building timelines that you can embed on a web page.  You will store the information for the timeline in a Google Spreadsheet.  Just like yesterday, you will learn how to use this on your OWN, with limited guidance from me.  

Important Information for This Assignment

You will work with a partner to create this timeline, working on ONE computer, taking turns at the keyboard.  You will ultimately produce only one version of this timeline that both of you will use to embed onto your page.
All of the information that you will need to build this timeline (dates, headlines, text, path to images, youtube links, image credits, etc...) are contained in this spreadsheet (Links to an external site.).
Submission

When you are finished building the timeline, you will add the timeline embed to a new version of the germany-world-cup website we have been building for the last two days and submit the link to the page on your site.  This is a departure from yesterday, when you were submitting just the embed code for the in-class assignment.  

When finished, your page should look just like mine. (Links to an external site.)

Step by step:

copy germany-world-cup from you server to your desktop
make a new folder called day-three
copy everything from WITHIN day-two folder into day-three folder
make a new section of the document (just copy the section that contains the map above it and paste below).
edit the text and add the iframe.  Be sure to make adjustments so the timeline iframe is the right width as page resizes.
when finished, copy day-three folder back into germany-world-cup folder on your server.


Today begins a week and a half of working with data visualizations.

Your assignment today is to duplicate the interactive map that appears on this page (Links to an external site.) EXACTLY as it appears.  

The map shows the location of the six stadiums in Brazil in which the German men's national soccer team competed en route to winning the 2014 World Cup.  The icons are shaded yellow for group stage games and green for knockout round games.  When you click on the icons, information appears in a pop-up box.

Important Information for This Assignment
You will work with a partner to create this map, working on ONE computer, taking turns at the keyboard. You should only produce one version of this map on one person's Google account.
The location, name and game info on each of the stadiums is contained in this excel file (Links to an external site.), which you should download.
To make this map, you will use Google Maps "My Maps (Links to an external site.)" feature.  I will provide no more instruction than that.  There are THOUSANDS of software tools that help journalists build interactive graphics, and I'm trying to get you comfortable with the idea of just jumping in and learning how to use something new.  With some googling, I bet you can find a guide or tips on how to use My Maps.  And if you are having a specific problem, google that problem.
When you are finished and you are CONFIDENT it is exactly as mine appears, you should submit the embed code (it will contain the word iframe) below.
