
# In-class assignment 4.5

Today, we're going to continue to use jQuery to add interactivity to an HTML page.

You will work with a partner to add a button to your Germany World Cup page that, when clicked, alternately hides and shows the data points in the scatterplot for the 16 teams eliminated in the Round of 32. The purpose of this is to allow the viewers to better see the differences between the tournament's best teams.

## Steps

### Put a small blue Bootstrap button on the page

We're going to use one of the default Bootstrap buttons.  Please use the example code for the ["Extra small" button in Bootstrap blue that appears here](http://getbootstrap.com/css/#buttons-sizes).  

Paste it just below the last paragraph tag in the writeup.  Change the text from "Extra small button" to "Hide Eliminated Teams". Give the button an ID of "togglequarterfinalists".

### Write out some pseudocode

Before you start writing any actual jQuery, think through the logic, step-by-step, of what you're trying to do, and write some pseudocode.  

Here's how I thought of it, step-by-step, in pseudocode:

* When the page loads:
  * If the button is clicked:
    * Change the legend from being shown to being hidden (or vice versa)
    * Change the text in the button from "Hide Eliminated Teams" to "Show Eliminated Teams" (or vice versa)
    * If the series in the Highchart with the eliminated teams is visible, hide it and if it's not visible, show it.  This is called an If-Else function.  

### Modify the html and css

In the jQuery functions we write, we will make changes to HTML elements based on user actions. That will generally mean using specific IDs and classes in our jQuery functions.

Just like yesterday, to change the color of the button, we can use the Bootstrap class for the red button.

Just like yesterday, you will likely need to add some tags inside of the button to flip back and forth between "Hide Eliminated Teams" and "Show Eliminated Teams", and probably some CSS.  If you use the same classes for these tags as you did yesterday, you may run into problems.  Why?


### Link the jQuery library and your javascript file

If you did this yesterday, you don't have to do it again.

### Translate your pseudocode into real jQuery

In scripts.js, add your function just below yesterday's function, inside the closing tags ```});``` for ```$(document).ready(function() {```. Like so:

```js

$(document).ready(function() {
  /*Yesterday's function*/
  $("#legendhide").click(function(){
		$(".legendbox").toggle();
		$("#legendhide span").toggle();
		$("#legendhide").toggleClass("btn-danger");
	});
	/*Add today's function here*/
});
```

As you're writing and testing, use the Chrome JavaScript Console to look for problems.  And as you test ideas, you may find you need to modify the working model you created in pseudocode, or make changes to any html elements or CSS you created.

### The hard part: turning the chart series on and off.

Figuring out how to toggle on and off the series is a bit tricky, and will likely require you to find some code that does something similar and modify it for use here.  

As a hint, I think you will find a link to a JS fiddle on [this page of the Highcharts API reference](http://api.highcharts.com/highcharts/Series) that should help you.  

### Submission

Save all your changes, commit them your Germany World Cup repo, submit the link on ELMS.
