# In-class assignment 2.5

**How to submit:** Commit index.html to GitHub Pages site. Put link to GitHub pages site in ELMS.

## Interactive timelines

For the next week and a half, we'll be using digital story telling tools and code to tell visual stories (a timeline, maps and charts) about Germany's run to the World Cup title in 2014.  We'll start, today, with an interactive timeline, built using a tool called Timeline.js, one of the many free, open-source storytelling tools used by news organizations.   

## Instructions

Your assignment today is to build the interactive timeline of Germany's game recap that appears on the page ["Germany's Run to the World Cup."](http://smussenden.github.io/germany-world-cup/index.html)

You will use [Timeline.JS](https://timeline.knightlab.com/), an intuitive, free tool for building timelines to embed on a web page.  You will store the information for the timeline in a Google Spreadsheet.  Just like yesterday, you will learn how to use this on your OWN, with limited guidance from me. I encourage you to read the documentation.  

## Important Information for This Assignment

You will work with a partner to create this timeline, working on ONE computer, taking turns at the keyboard.  You will ultimately produce only one version of this timeline that both of you will use to embed onto your page.

All of the information that you will need to build this exact timeline (dates, headlines, descriptions, path to images, youtube links, image credits, etc...) are contained [in this spreadsheet](germany.timelinejs-info.xlsx).  Please use the text, links and files provided. Note:

* There is one title slide, which should have a headline, an introductory paragraph, an image and a caption.
* There is one slide for each game Germany played during the World Cup, featuring the date, a headline, a short paragraph, a link to a game recap, an image (or a YouTube video), and an image/video credit.  

## Submission

When you are finished building the timeline, and you are confident that it looks IDENTICAL to mine, submit your embed code in ELMS.  
