# In-class assignment 3.3



To reinforce the Excel training and the methodology in today's lecture, we're going to "interview" a data set about the 2014 World Cup.

This Excel workbook contains several spreadsheets documenting team performance at the 2014 World Cup: Goals, Shots, Shot Position, Attacking, Defending, Discipline and Passing. It was scraped from [FIFA.com's World Cup 2014 Team Stats](http://www.fifa.com/worldcup/archive/brazil2014/statistics/teams/goal-scored.html) page using a Chrome plugin called [Table Capture](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/table-capture/iebpjdmgckacbodjpijphcplhebcmeop?hl=en).

You are going to interview this data set to describe how Germany won the 2014 World Cup using the method we described in today's lecture:

* 1. Ask a question (I'm giving you some, you'll come up with others).
* 2. Find data to interview to answer those questions (I'm giving it to you).
* 3. Skeptically investigate the data's accuracy (Check a random sample against other sources, ask skeptical questions).
* 4. Translate your questions into language the data understands.
* 5. For each question, calculate baselines to compare and provide context in order to interpret meaning of findings (Calculate min, max, median and average).
* 6. Repeat 1-5 as necessary.
* 7. Translate your findings into language people understand.
Translate answers into plain English (Provide one explanatory sentence and one sentence with more specificity and context).
* 8. Before publication, have someone else reproduce your work

## Getting started

Download the [Excel workbook of World Cup 2014 stats](WC-14-Team-Stats.xlsx)

## Part 1: Ask a question, then operationalize it with a formula.

Help answer the questions given in parentheses below by creating the following formula columns on each spreadsheet:

#### GOALS SCORED
1. Column K Goals scored per game. (Did Germany score a lot of goals relative to other teams?)
2. Column L Goals against per game. (Did Germany let in relatively few goals relative to other teams?)
3. Column M The difference between goals for per game and goals against per game. (Did Germany score just enough to win or did they dominate?)
4. Min, Max, Median and Average for K, L and M. (Used to compare Germany's figure)

#### SHOTS
1. Column H Shots per game. (Did Germany score a lot of goals in part because they took a lot of shots?)
2. Column I Attempts on Target per game. (Did Germany score a lot of goals in part because they took a lot of shots on goal per game?)
3. Column J Percentage of Attempts on Target. (Did Germany have many wasted shots?)
4. Min, Max, Median and Average for H, I, J. (Used to compare Germany's figure)

#### ATTACKING
1. Column K Offsides per game. (Did they get a lot of chances negated because they were offsides?)
2. Min, Max, Median and Average for K. (Used to compare Germany's figure)

#### DISCIPLINE
1. Column J Yellow cards per game. (Were they in trouble a lot compared to other teams?)
2. Column K Red cards per game. (Were they REALLY in trouble a lot compared to other teams?)
3. Min, Max, Median and Average for J, K. (Used to compare Germany's figure)

#### PASSING
1. Column K Passes per game. (Did they have a lot of possession ball movement relative to other teams?)
2. Column L Percentage of passes completed. (Were they good at passing, or did they fail to complete a lot of passes relative to other teams?)
3. Min, Max, Median and Average for J, K. (Used to compare Germany's figure)

## Part 2: Come up with your own questions

1. Review the data available in the spreadsheet and think of three questions of your own.
2. Turn those questions into mathematical formulas and add them to the spreadsheet in appropriate places.
3. Write formulas for min, max, median and average for those columns, in order to compare Germany to other teams.

## Part 3: Translate answers into plain English.

1. Use your news judgment to select the most interesting findings from your "interview" and translate those into plain English for the reader.  You should have two sentences for each finding. The first sentence should help the reader understand the meaning and importance of your finding.  The second sentence should provide specificity. For example, this is how you might translate the rate of Germany's shots on goal statistic:

*“Germany put itself in a position to score more often than any other team in the World Cup. Nearly three out of four -- 72.45 percent -- of its shots were on goal, a higher rate than any other team in the tournament.”*

2. You should have a total of six findings, which means six paragraphs with a total of 12 sentences.  You should write up a finding for:

* Passes per game.
* Percentage of passes completed.
* Shots per game and percentage of shot attempts on target, combined into one.
* The difference between goals for per game and goals against per game, combined into one finding.
* Two more findings of your own choosing, at least one of which was derived from a question you developed yourself.

## Submission

Save your spreadsheet by adding your initials at the front of the file name (i.e. SM-WC-14-Team-Stats.xlsx). Upload your completed spreadsheet to ELMS. Your homework assignment will be to add the findings to your page.

























Today, we're going to use another Google Product, Fusion Tables (which is part of Google Drive) to build a choropleth map to layer statistical data on top of a geographic area.

I want you to build the [map on my germany-world-cup page](http://smussenden.github.io/germany-world-cup), which shows how far each country in the world progressed in the 2014 World Cup.  Each country has a different color shade depending on how far it advanced. When you click on a country, it has the country name and some text on how far it advanced.

## Important information for this assignment

You will work with a partner to create this map, working on ONE computer, taking turns at the keyboard. You should only produce one version of this map on one person's Google account.

## Required files

You will need two download two files:

This [Excel file is a spreadsheet that contains the names of countries](worldcupresults.xlsx), information on World Cup finish and other data that will help you complete the assignment.

This [KML file is a shapefile](world-countries-shapefile.kml), and it contains detailed geographic information about borders of each country. (There are lots of freely available [shapefiles](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shapefile) from the [Census](https://www.census.gov/geo/maps-data/data/tiger-kml.html
) you can use for future projects.

## Fusion Tables

[Fusion Tables](https://support.google.com/fusiontables/answer/2571232?hl=en#viz) is a plugin for Google Drive. You'll need to [activate it here](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/fusion-tables-experimenta/pfoeakahkgllhkommkfeehmkfcloagkl?hl=en) before you can begin.

## Instructions

1.  It's up to you to use the publicly available resources on the web to figure out how to use it. [The Fusion Tables Help Center](https://support.google.com/fusiontables/?hl=en#topic=1652595) may be of some use.  

2.  You will need to upload both of these files separately to fusion tables, then find a way to mash them together, so that the shapefile information and statistical information are in a single spreadsheet.

3.  **SHADING** The colors you should use for shading of the map (opacity set at 80 percent) are:
Champions: 000000
Finals: AD866A
Semi-finals: A8201A
Quarter-finals: EC9A29
Round of 16: 0F8B8D
Round of 32: DAD2D8
Not in World Cup: FFFFFF

4. **POP-UP BOX** In the pop-up box, the country name should be wrapped in an h2 tag, and the text in a paragraph tag.

5. **LEGEND** Do not use Fusion Tables to make the legend.  You'll build it with HTML and CSS for your homework.

## Submission

The output of your map will be an iframe, which you should upload to ELMS.
