


Working from the day-seven Germany World Cup assignment, you will be adding a button that turns the legend of the second map on and off, as shown here: <a id="" class="" title="" href="http://cnsmaryland.org/352-652/germany-world-cup/jquery-1/index.html" target="">http://cnsmaryland.org/352-652/germany-world-cup/jquery-1/index.html</a>.&nbsp;</p>
<p>The button says "hide legend." When you click it, the legend box disappears,&nbsp; the button text changes to "show legend" and the button turns red. &nbsp;When you click it again, the legend comes back, the text changes back to "hide legend," and the button again turns blue. &nbsp;</p>
<p>You will need to create a new script.js file and link it to your html document, and write some custom jquery code (not much, just a few lines) to get this working. &nbsp;There are several possible solutions to this problem. &nbsp;Mine was seven lines long. If you get really desperate and have struggled for a while, feel free to look at my code, but please don't jump in and look at it right away.&nbsp;</p>
<p>Please use one of the default buttons that comes with bootstrap, an Extra Small blue button. &nbsp;More information on those can be found here: <a id="" class="" title="" href="http://getbootstrap.com/css/#buttons" target="">http://getbootstrap.com/css/#buttons</a>.&nbsp;</p>
<p>When it's working, submit a link to the page on your server, which should be YOURSITE.com/germany-world-cup/jquery-1/index.html</p>
<p>&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>

# In-class assignment 4.4

## Using jQuery to add interactivity to a page

For today's assignment, you will add a button to your Germany World Cup page that, when clicked, will make the legend on the map vanish.

## Steps



Today's assignment will likely be the most challenging of the semester.  Most of you will struggle with this one, and that's the point of the exercise.  The process of struggling to find the answers is what matters here.

We'll be using HighcCarts again today.  If you need it, please refresh your memory of [how to get a basic HighChart working](../3.4/3.4-instructions.md).

You will be building the scatterplot that appears [at the bottom of this page](http://smussenden.github.io/germany-world-cup).

You can find this data [in this spreadsheet](Class-Round-Concatenate-WC-14.xlsx), a slightly modified version of you created for the Class 11 In-Class Assignment.

## Getting started

Copy the `.graphiccontainer` with an ID of four and paste it below, changing the ID to six. Put a div with an ID of "winlosschart" inside of the `.graphiccontent` div.  

At the bottom of the page, below the script tag holding the `passeschart` function, put an empty script tag, like so:

```html
<script>

</script>
```

Paste in the function from this [HighCharts example](https://www.highcharts.com/demo/scatter).  Save and refresh in the browser to make sure it's working.

## Wrangling the data

You will be plotting goals per game for each team on one axis, and goals against per game for each team on the other axis.  Here's what you should do step-by-step, in the "Goals for Scatterplot" sheet.

* In column O, use an Excel function to round Column L to one decimal place.
* In Column P, use an Excel function to round Column M to one decimal place.
* Use an Excel function to put the data in a format that works for HighCharts.  It's called [CONCATENATE](https://support.office.com/en-us/article/CONCATENATE-function-8f8ae884-2ca8-4f7a-b093-75d702bea31d) and will allow you to combine data from different columns.  This is MANDATORY. I'm going to come around and ask to see your spreadsheet with concatenated data.  

## Modifying the chart

* Replace the existing data in the sample chart with the data from your Excel file.  Test that it's working before moving on. (Hint: it might not work, and the Ivory Coast might be the reason.  Why?)
* Figure out a way to add country name to the data for each point.  I'd suggest Googling "name per point highcharts". The end result of this is that your data will be structured a little bit differently than it is in the example. You may find it easier to go back and use Excel to update your concatenate formula.
* The two point colors are "Reached Round of 16" #FF3A20 and "Eliminated in Round of 32" #7cb5ec
* You will have to figure out how to make the country name appear above each point. Try Google or the Highcharts documentation for help.
* The tooltip should have country name, goals for and goals against, as in mine, formatted as mine is. Try Google or the Highcharts documentation for help.
* The legend has moved below the chart.
* The axis names have changed, as have the title and subtitle.  
* The chart is 600px by 800px.

## Submission

Commit the changes to your GitHub repo, and post the link to ELMS.
