# In-class assignment 3.2

**How to submit:** Submit the embed code for your map on ELMS. (Your homework will be to add it to your germany-world-cup page).

Today, we're going to use another Google Product, Fusion Tables (which is part of Google Drive) to build a choropleth map to layer statistical data on top of a geographic area.

I want you to build the [map on my germany-world-cup page](http://smussenden.github.io/germany-world-cup), which shows how far each country in the world progressed in the 2014 World Cup.  Each country has a different color shade depending on how far it advanced. When you click on a country, it has the country name and some text on how far it advanced.

## Important information for this assignment

You will work with a partner to create this map, working on ONE computer, taking turns at the keyboard. You should only produce one version of this map on one person's Google account.

## Required files

You will need two download two files:

This [Excel file is a spreadsheet that contains the names of countries](worldcupresults.xlsx), information on World Cup finish and other data that will help you complete the assignment.

This [KML file is a shapefile](world-countries-shapefile.kml), and it contains detailed geographic information about borders of each country. (There are lots of freely available [shapefiles](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shapefile) from the [Census](https://www.census.gov/geo/maps-data/data/tiger-kml.html
) you can use for future projects.

## Fusion Tables

[Fusion Tables](https://support.google.com/fusiontables/answer/2571232?hl=en#viz) is a plugin for Google Drive. You'll need to [activate it here](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/fusion-tables-experimenta/pfoeakahkgllhkommkfeehmkfcloagkl?hl=en) before you can begin.

## Instructions

1.  It's up to you to use the publicly available resources on the web to figure out how to use it. [The Fusion Tables Help Center](https://support.google.com/fusiontables/?hl=en#topic=1652595) may be of some use.  

2.  You will need to upload both of these files separately to fusion tables, then find a way to mash them together, so that the shapefile information and statistical information are in a single spreadsheet.

3.  **SHADING** The colors you should use for shading of the map (opacity set at 80 percent) are:
Champions: 000000
Finals: AD866A
Semi-finals: A8201A
Quarter-finals: EC9A29
Round of 16: 0F8B8D
Round of 32: DAD2D8
Not in World Cup: FFFFFF

4. **POP-UP BOX** In the pop-up box, the country name should be wrapped in an h2 tag, and the text in a paragraph tag.

5. **LEGEND** Do not use Fusion Tables to make the legend.  You'll build it with HTML and CSS for your homework. 

## Submission

The output of your map will be an iframe, which you should upload to ELMS.































## Interactive maps

Today continues our use of digital story telling tools and code to tell visual stories about Germany's run to the World Cup title in 2014.  We'll build an interactive map using a basic tool to build maps on top of the Google Maps API, one of the many free mapping tools available to journalists.

Your assignment today is to duplicate the interactive map that appears on [my Germany World Cup](http://smussenden.github.io/germany-world-cup/index.html) page EXACTLY as it appears.  

The map shows the location of the six stadiums in Brazil in which the German men's national soccer team competed en route to winning the 2014 World Cup.

The icons are shaded yellow for group stage games and green for knockout round games.  When you click on the icons, information about the stadium, location, username, date, and the opponent appears in a pop-up box.

## Important information for this assignment

You will work with a partner to create this map, working on ONE computer, taking turns at the keyboard. You should only produce one version of this map on one person's Google account.

The location, stadium name, tournament stage and game info on each of the stadiums is contained in this [Excel file of Brazil stadiums](brazilstadiums.xlsx).

To make this map, you will use Google Maps "My Maps" feature.  I will provide no more instruction than that.  There are THOUSANDS of software tools that help journalists build interactive graphics, and I'm trying to get you comfortable with the idea of just jumping in and learning how to use something new.  

With some googling, I bet you can find a guide or tips on how to use My Maps.  And if you are having a specific problem, google that problem.

When you are finished and you are CONFIDENT it is exactly as mine appears, you should submit the embed code (it will contain the word iframe) below.    
